## Loops

There are different ways of looping in Arucas, they all are similar, but some work better in certain applications.

### `while`

While loops are the simplest form of loops they work by checking a condition then running a section of code, after it has finished running it will return to the condition and check it again, the loop will end when the condition is evaluated to false or if a `break` statement is used inside a loop, but we will cover this later.

Here is a simple example of how you could make an infinite loop that will never end.
```kotlin
// The condition inside this while expression 
// is true, this means it will always be true
// and as a result this loop will never end
while (true) {
}
// This program will never end naturally
```

You can use a while loop to iterate over numbers, here is an example:
```kotlin
counter = 0;
// This will loop until counter >= 10
while (counter < 10) {
    counter++;
    // Increments the counter by 1
}
```

However, this way of iterating can lead to human errors, accidentally missing the increment of the counter would lead to the loop never ending, and so we would more commonly use a `for` loop. 

### `for`

The for keyword is used to define a for loop, similar to the C style loop. The for expression contains 3 sub expressions, the first is evaluated at the start of the loop only, the second is evaluated as the condition for the loop to continue similar to the while loop, and the last gets executed whenever the loop reaches the end.
```kotlin
// Usually define the initial variable in the first expression (i = 0)
// The condition in the second (i < 10)
// Thirdly the expression that gets run at the end of each loop (i++)
for (i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
}
```

Similarly to the while loop you can easily make an infinite for loop, the expressions in the for loop can remain empty allowing you to do something similar to the following:
```kotlin
// No first expression
// Condition is always true
// No final expression
for (; true;) {
}
```

A common use for `for` loops is iterating over the indexes of a list, we haven't covered lists in great detail just yet, but you are welcome to come back here once we have.
```kotlin
list = ["foo", "bar", "baz"];

// Remember indexes start at 0!
for (i = 0; i < len(list); i++) {
    item = list.get(i);
    print(item);
}
```

### `foreach`

Foreach is a developed version of the for loop allowing easier iteration of collections, this could be lists, sets, collectors, etc.
Similar to the previous example in the for loop, but you do not need to define an index to iterate over, you can just simply iterate over each item in the list.
```kotlin
list = ["foo", "bar", "baz"];

foreach (item : list) {
    print(item);
}
```

This is a much simpler way of iterating, something that you should keep in mind is that when iterating over maps, it iterates over the keys in the map, you can then use that to get the value if you wish:
```kotlin
map = {"foo": "oof", "bar": "rab", "baz": "zab"};

foreach (key : map) {
    value = map.get(key);
    print(key);   // -> foo, bar, baz
    print(value); // -> oof, rab, zab
}
```

### `break`

The `break` keyword allows you to break out of a loop at any point, and the loop will no longer be executed further, this cannot break out of nested loops only the most recent loop that you are inside. The break keyword works inside `while`, `for`, and `foreach` loops.
```kotlin
// Same iteration as shown before from 0-9
for (i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
    // If i is greater than 5 we stop and break the loop
    if (i > 5) {
        break;
    }
}
```

### `continue`

The `continue` keyword is similar to the break keyword in that it allows you to disrupt the flow of a loop. Unlike the break keyword however this doesn't terminate the loop, instead it stops the loop and returns it back to the beginning, this works with `while`, `for`, and `foreach` loops.
```kotlin
for (i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
    if (i == 6) {
        // We go back to the start of the loop
        // the final statement in the for loop
        // still gets executed so i increments
        continue;
    }
    print(i); // 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 <- no 6
}
```

### Recursion

Recursion is a type of loop or iteration that works when a function calls itself causing a chain effect, usually the function has a condition where it does not call itself and exits, usually recursion is slower than the other traditional loops and is more unsafe as it can lead to a possibility of the stack overflowing which will lead to it throwing an error.
```kotlin
// This function is unsafe and will result in a stack overflow
fun recurse() {
    // Calls itself
    recurse();
}
```

A more safe approach if you must use recursion is to have a counter that lets the function know how deep it is:
```kotlin
fun recurse(depth) {
    if (depth > 10) {
        print("Depth of 10, stopping...");
        return;
    }
    // Increase the depth ever time we recurse
    recurse(depth + 1);
}
// This is now safe to call, it will only call itself
// Until it hits the depth limit
recurse(0);
```