## Errors

Errors are used in a program to indicate that something has gone wrong. Error's allow for a more complex control flow as when an error is thrown it propagates directly out of function calls until the error is either caught or it stops the program.

### Creation

By default there is only one `Error` class which is built-in. This class can be instantiated and can be thrown. To create an error we can simply just call the `Error` class's constructor:

```java
new Error();
```

This creates an empty error, to create an error with a message that will display on the stacktrace we can add a parameter:

```java
new Error("Something went wrong");
```

And lastly if we want to add a value to the error which we can use when the error is caught we can add a last parameter:

```java
new Error("Something went very wrong", [1, 2, 3]);
```

One last thing to mention is that the error class is extendable and when extending it will change the name of the error on the stacktrace:

```
Error: Something went wrong
> File: console, Line: 1, Column: 1, In: throwError::0 
1 | throwError();
  | ^ 
```

Compared to:

```
ChildClassError: Something went very wrong
> File: console, Line: 1, Column: 1, In: throwError::0 
1 | throwChildClassError();
  | ^ 
```

### Throwing 

To throw an error we simply just use the `throw` keyword. You can **only** throw objects that are of the `Error` type, this includes any child classes. If you attempt to throw a non-error type then an error will be thrown:

```kotlin
error = new Error("Something went wrong");
throw error;
```

### Catching

As previously mentioned it's possible to catch propagating errors. This can be done with the `try catch` syntax, the `catch` must be followed by braces with a 'parameter' which will reference the error that has been caught. Any errors that happen inside a `try catch` may be caught:

```kotlin
try {
	throw new Error();
} catch (e) {
	// Ignore
}
```

You are also able to specify the type of error that you would like to catch by type hinting the parameter:

```kotlin
class CustomError: Error {
	CustomError(): super();
}

try {
	throw new CustomError();
} catch (e: CustomError) {
	print("CustomError caught");
}
```

By doing this any other errors that are not an instance of `CustomError` would be ignored by the catch.

### Finally

Finally is a useful keyword, it allows for code to be executed if an error is thrown like a catch but unlike catch does not actually catch the error. This is especially useful if you need to reset or close something after running a try statement:

```kotlin
fun something() {
	// May throw error here
}

state = false;

try {
	state = true;
	something();
} finally {
	// Reset
	state = false;
}
```

Using finally is essentially the equivalent to:

```kotlin
try {
	// ...
} catch (e) {
	// Finally code here
	
	// Re-throw the error
	throw e;
}
```

In the case that an error is not thrown the code in the finally clause will simply just execute after the try block has executed.

Something to also note is that the `catch` and `finally` keywords can be used in conjunction with eachother:

```kotlin
try {
	// ...
} catch (e) {
	// ...
} finally {
	// ...
}
```