## Imports

Importing is a large part of almost every programming language. Importing is used to use code from other libraries so you do not need to write it yourself.

Importing in Arucas is made as simple as possible, by default you will be able to import any libraries that are already built-in. For example the `Json` class from the `util.Json` module. You can import using the `import` and `from` keywords:

```kotlin
import Json from util.Json;
```

You can import specific classes from any module, and you can import multiple classes by separating them with a comma:

```kotlin
import A, B, C from abc.ABC;
```

Further if you want to import a lot of classes from a module you can instead use a `*` to indicate that you want to import all of the classes:

```kotlin
// In this case it'll only import Json as it's the only
// Class in the module but in other cases it'll import multiple
import * from util.Json;
```

Generally it's better to import specific classes only as it will prevent class name conflicts. And further it helps while running your code; this is because imports in Arucas are lazy. This means that imports are not evaluated immediately but only evaluated when needed. 

If you reference a class that doesn't already exist in the scope then the interpreter tries to find that class in any of the imports you have, if you do not specify the class names in the import then the interpreter is forced to import everything.

The reason imports are done this way is to allow for cyclical imports:

```kotlin
// File A.arucas

import ClassB from B;

class ClassA {
	static fun doSomething() {
		// ClassB is only imported once we get here
		B.doSomething();
	}
}
```

```kotlin
// File B.arucas

import ClassA from A;

class ClassB {
	static fun doSomething() {
		print("B does something!");
	}
}

// ClassA is only imported once we get here
ClassA.doSomething(); // prints 'B does something'
```

One important thing to note is that you can only import classes from different files and you cannot directly import global variables or functions, although you can simply just use static variables or static functions to achieve the same behaviour.

## Libraries

The ability to import other classes would be quite useless to only import built-in classes so Arucas allows you to import classes from a library repository (which can be found [here](https://github.com/senseiwells/ArucasLibraries)). To import these you just simply import any class from the given module, the libraries will be automatically downloaded given you have an internet connection.

For example if I wanted to import [`ImmutableList`](https://github.com/senseiwells/ArucasLibraries/blob/master/libs/util/Collections.arucas#L464-L518):

```kotlin
import ImmutableList from util.Collections;
```

If you have made a library you are welcome to create a pull request to submit the library so that other users can use your code!

## Local

Libraries by default are stored in `C:/Users/<user>/.arucas/libs`, this may differ if you are using Arucas embedded in another application. This folder also contains stubs for the built-in classes and built-in functions with their documentation.

Arucas will automatically update any libraries when you import them, if for some reason you would prefer for this not to happen you can use the `local` keyword to prevent Arucas from checking the repository for updates:

```kotlin
import local ImmutableList from util.Collections;
```

Similarly you can use this to keep local dependancies. You can leave your local dependancy in the `libs` folder and by using the `local` keyword Arucas will skip checking the repository speeding up your import.