## Classes

Classes in Arucas allow for abstraction, they provide a way to encapsulate values into another value, and classes let you define certain behaviour with the value such as interactions with operators and the methods that the value has.

### Syntax

The class syntax is very simple and similar to many other languages, we use the `class` keyword to declare a class definition followed by the name of the class and then a series of class statements which we will cover further on in this section.
```kotlin
// Classes should follow Pascal Naming
class ExampleClass {
}
```

### Constructors

Constructors are essentially functions that are run when the class is instantiated. These are often used to set fields and often take parameters. By default, if no constructor is declared then a synthetic constructor is created: you will be able to construct the class without any parameters. However, if any constructors are defined this synthetic constructor will not be available.

To define a constructor in a class, we use the class name followed by brackets which can contain parameters and then followed by a statement which is run when the class is instantiated.
```kotlin
class ExampleClass {
    // Constructor
    ExampleClass() {
    }
}
```

Since Arucas 2.0.0 you can also call an overloaded constructor inside another constructor. This can be done by calling `this` after your constructor definition:
```kotlin
class ExampleClass {
	ExampleClass(number) {
	}
	// Here we call this() constructor
	// with a parameter of 10
	ExampleClass(): this(10) {
	}
}
```

When you do this the referenced constructor will always be executed first.

### Fields

Fields are essentially variables that are stored in a class and can be accessed by that class at anytime. As of writing this documentation all fields are public and mutable meaning that anyone can access and modify the value of a field.

Fields are defined in the class body using the `var` keyword and can also optionally be type hinted to enforce only specific types to be allowed in the field.
```kotlin
class Example {
	var exampleField;
	var typedField: String;
}
```

An issue with the current version is that typed fields will always be null until they are assigned a value, this essentially means that you you cannot have a typed field without it accepting `Null` or having it assigned when created. Which brings me onto the next point, fields can be initialised in the body, the expression will be re-evaluated everytime a class is created:
```kotlin
class Example {
	var exampleField = "initialised";
}
```

Fields are what allows for encapsulation since you can have as many fields as you want in a class:
```kotlin
class Person {
	var name;
	var age;
	var height;
	var gender;
	// ...
}
```

### Methods

Methods are just functions that belong to a class. Methods are defined like functions but instead they are declated inside the class body.
```kotlin
class Example {
	fun sayHello() {
		print("hello!");
	}
}
```

To use a method you need an instance of the class to call it.
```kotlin
e = new Example(); // Instance of the Example class
e.sayHello(); // prints 'hello!'
```

Methods are special in the fact that they implicitly pass the calling object into the method allowing you to access fields and other methods from within that method, you can reference this calling object with the keyword `this`.
```kotlin
class Example {
	var string;
	Example(string) {
		// this references this object
		// you are setting the field 'string'
		this.string = string;
	}
	fun say() {
		// We access the 'string'
		// field on this
		print(this.string);
	}
}
```

This may seem confusing, what does `this` mean? Well internally it works the same as a regular function, `this` is just a parameter that is passed in implicitly:
```kotlin
// this is a keyword thus this example
// would fail to compile, but just an example
fun say(this) {
	print(this.string);
}
class Example {
	var string;
	Example(string) {
		this.string = string;
	}
}
e = new Example("foo");
say(e); // prints 'foo'
```

Other than that methods work exactly the same as functions which you can read about [here](https://github.com/senseiwells/Arucas/blob/main/docs/Language%20Documentation/14.%20Functions.md).

### Operators

Arucas allows you to declare how operations should work between classes. You defined operations much like methods but instead of using `fun` you use the `operator` keyword and instead of being followed by a name you follow it with the operator you want to override:
```kotlin
class Example {
	var number = 10;
	operator + (other: Example) {
		return this.number + other.number;
	}
}
e1 = new Example();
e1.number = 22;
e2 = new Example();
print(e1 + e2); // prints 32
```

The parameters in the operator are also significant since you can override both unary and binary operators (and technically a ternary).

Here is a table of all the overridable operators:

#### Unary (no parameters):
Name | Operator | Example
-|-|-
NOT | `!` | `!false`
PLUS | `+` | `+10`
MINUS | `-` | `-10`

#### Binary (one parameter):
Name | Operator | Example
-|-|-
PLUS | `+` | `1 + 1`
MINUS | `-` | `1 - 1`
MULTIPLY | `*` | `2 * 2`
DIVIDE | `/` | `4 / 2`
POWER | `^` | `2 ^ 2`
LESS_THAN | `<` | `55 < 90`
LESS_THAN_EQUAL | `<=` | `43 <= 10`
MORE_THAN | `>` | `66 > 22`
MORE_THAN_EQUAL | `>=` | `78 >= 0`
EQUAL | `==` | `6 == 6`
NOT_EQUAL | `!=` | `"wow" != "foo"`
AND | `&&` | `true && false`
OR | `\|\|` | `false \|\| true`
XOR | `~` | `true ~ false`
SHIFT_LEFT | `<<` | `2 << 1`
SHIFT_RIGHT | `>>` | `2 >> 1`
BIT_AND | `&` | `56 & 7`
BIT_OR | `\|` | `92 \| 45`
SQUARE_BRACKET | `[]` | `[8, 9, 10][2]`

#### Ternary (two parameters)
Name | Operator | Example
-|-|-
SQUARE_BRACKET | `[]` | `[8, 9, 10][2] = 11`

### Static Methods and Fields

Static methods and fields work very much like the global scope, you can define variables and functions in a class that do not need an instance of the class to be called. The reason you may want to put your methods in a class as static instead of the global scope is because it stops cluttering the global scope and more importantly allows other script to be able to use your function; as the global scope cannot be imported, only classes can thus static methods can be used whereas global functions cannot.

Defining a static field or method is extremely easy, it is the same as a regular method or field but instead has the `static` keywork before it.
```kotlin
class Example {
	static fun staticMethod() {
		print("Called static method");
	}
}
```

And to call a static method you just use the class name followed by the dot operator then the method name and any arguments:
```kotlin
Example.staticMethod(); // prints 'Called static method'
```

Static methods do not have access to `this` because there is no class instance to access.

### Inheritance

Inheritance was introduced in Arucas 2.0.0. It allows for your classes to inherit methods and fields from a parent class. Arucas does not support multi-inheritance however does support interface inheritance.

To inherit a class you simply add a colon after your class name and then follow that with the name of the class you wish to inherit from.
```kotlin
class Parent {
}
class Child: Parent {
}
```

When inheriting from a parent class (or superclass) you must initialise the parents constructor, this is enforced to avoid unexpected behaviours, this is required even if the parent has a default constructor or a constructor with no parameters. You can do this by adding a colon after your constructor and calling `super`.

```kotlin
class Parent {
	Parent() {
		print("Constructing parent!");
	}
}
class BadChild: Parent {
	// This will throw an error because
	// the child class is not initialising
	// the parents constructor
	BadChild() {
	}
}
// Assuming it were to compile
new BadChild(); // this would print nothing
class GoodChild: Parent {
	GoodChild(): super() {
	}
}
new GoodChild(); // This will print 'Constructing parent!'
```

Another thing to note is that the child class does not need to directly call the super constructor, as long as it is called at some point it is allowed. For example you can call an overloaded constructor that eventually calls the super constructor:
```kotlin
class Parent {
	Parent() {
		print("Constructing parent!");
	}
}
class Child: Parent {
	// This calls super
	Child(): super() {
	}
	// This class constructor with no args
	Child(argument): this() {
	}
}
new Child(); // prints 'Constructing parent!'
```

As mentioned child classes inherit methods and fields from their parent classes:
```kotlin
class Parent {
	var foo;
	Parent(bar) {
		this.foo = bar;
	}
	fun printFoo() {
		print(this.foo);
	}
}
class Child: Parent {
	Child(bar): super(bar);
	fun getFoo() {
		return this.foo;
	}
}
c = new Child("foo");
c.getFoo(); // -> 'foo'
c.printFoo(); // prints 'foo'
c.foo; // -> 'foo'
```

As well as inheriting child classes can override methods.
```kotlin
class Parent {
	var foo;
	Parent(bar) {
		this.foo = bar;
	}
	fun something() {
		print("Parent something!");
	}
	fun callSomething() {
		this.something();
	}
}
class Child: Parent {
	Child(): super("foo!");
	fun something() {
		print("Child something!");
	}
}
c = new Child();
p = new Parent("bar");
c.callSomething(); // prints 'Child something!'
p.callSomething(); // prints 'Parent something!'
```

Even if a child overrides a parents method or operator it can still access it by using the `super` keyword, this just calls the method belonging to the parent.
```kotlin
class Parent {
	operator + (other) {
		return -1;
	}
	fun getSomething() {
		return "Parent";
	}
}
class Child: Parent {
	Child(): super();
	operator + (other) {
		if (other == 3) {
			return this.getSomething();
		}
		if (other == 4) {
			return super.getSomething();
		}
		return super + other;
	}
	fun getSomething() {
		return "Child";
	}
}
c = new Child();
c + 3; // -> "Child"
c + 4; // -> "Parent"
c + 0; // -> -1
```

An interesting thing to also note is how types work with inheritance. using the static method `Type.of(<Object>)` gets the exact type of the object:
```kotlin
class Parent {
	fun getTypeName() {
		return Type.of(this).getName();
	}
}
class Child: Parent {
	Child(): super();
}
new Parent().getTypeName(); // "Parent"
new Child().getTypeName(); // "Child"
```

This is because the `this` reference inside of the `Parent` class is of a type that is or a child class of `Parent` and since `Type.of(<Object>)` returns the exact type it will always be that of `Parent` or a child class of itself.

It is also worthy to note that you are able to extend some built-in classes if they allow it. For example you are permitted to extend the `Function` class:
```kotlin
class Example: Function {
	Example(): super();
	// This is the method that gets called
	// when you call a function with '()'
	fun invoke() {
		print("hi");
	}
	// You can also define
	// invoke with multiple parameters
	fun invoke(arg1, arg2) {
		print("hi two!");
	}
}
// So you can do stuff like this:
e = new Example();
e(); // Regular 'invoke' with no arguments, prints 'hi'
e(0, 0); // 'invoke' with 2 arguments, prints 'hi two!'
```

### Interfaces

While interfaces are still technically inheritance I split it up since the last section is quite big. What interfaces allow you to do is make a blueprint for a class, and if a class decides to implement an interface it **must** implement all the functions that were specified in an interface.

A class can implement multiple interfaces and if the methods are not implemented an error will be thrown. This is useful to be able to ensure that the values you pass around have specific methods. The requirements for a method to be implemented is for it to have the same name and same number of parameters. Like regular overriding of methods this does not force you to inherit the types however it is good practice to do so.
```kotlin
interface Addable {
	fun add(other);
}
class NoAdd {
}
class Add: Addable {
	fun add(other) {
		return 10;
	}
}
// We specifically tell this function that
// the first parameter must be of the type
// Addable, this ensures that we have a method
// 'add' that we can call.
fun addAny(first: Addable, second) {
	first.add(second);
}
addAny(new Add(), "foobar"); // -> 10
addAny(new NoAdd(), "foobar"); // Error
```

Interfaces can work alongside class inheritance and as mentioned you can implement as many interfaces as needed. Interfaces are also permitted to be implemented on enums.
```kotlin
// Kinda pointless to have in interface
// with nothing in it, but this is an example
interface A { }
interface B { }
class Parent { }
// This doesn't need to be in a specific order
class Child: Parent, A, B {
	Child(): super();
}
```