## Enums

Enums provide a nice way to program constants. 
This is done by using an enum class which can be declared using the `enum` keyword, 
much like a regular class enums can have defined methods and fields.
Enums only provide the constants that you specify and the user cannot
construct more instances of the enum class later.

### Syntax

The syntax to declare an enum class is very simple, just the `enum` keyword followed by the enum name, then inside your backets you can define your constants separated by commas:

```kotlin
enum Direction {
    NORTH, EAST, SOUTH, WEST
}
```

These can then just be simply accessed like a static field:

```kotlin
Direction.NORTH;
Direction.EAST;
Direction.SOUTH;
Direction.WEST;
```

### Constructors, Fields, and Methods

Much like when constructing a class instance, you can pass in parameters to an
enum constructor. This is called when the enums are initialised and cannot be
called later at runtime.

```kotlin
enum Direction {
    NORTH, EAST, SOUTH, WEST;
    
    Direction() {
        print(this.getName());
    }
}

// NORTH, EAST, SOUTH, WEST would be printed
```

The enum values can also be constructed with parameters:

```kotlin
enum Direction {
    NORTH("North"), 
    EAST("East"), 
    SOUTH("South"), 
    WEST("West");
    
    var pretty;
    
    Direction(pretty: String) {
        this.pretty = pretty;
    }
}
```

As you can see in the example above enum values can also have fields.
These can help you have multiple objects in a single constant and allow you
add properties to your constant.

Much like this your enum values can have methods:

```kotlin
enum Direction {
    NORTH, EAST, SOUTH, WEST;
    
    fun opposite() {
        switch (this) {
            case NORTH -> return SOUTH;
            case SOUTH -> return NORTH;
            case EAST -> return WEST;
            case WEST -> return EAST;
        }
    }
}

Direction.NORTH.opposite(); // -> Direction.SOUTH
```

### Built-In

Since enums are a feature of the language there are a few methods that 
are pre-existing and unique to enums. The enum class will have 2 existing
static methods, `values()` which provides a list of all the enums in the
order that they are declared, and `fromString(string)` which will convert
a string into an enum value by its name - this is case-sensitive.

Enum values also have 2 existing methods, `getName()` which gets the name
of the enum. And `ordinal()` which returns the index of the enum.