## Literals

### String literals

Creating a string is similar to all other languages, you can create a string of characters by using double quotes, `""`, or single quotes, `''`, this is personal preference as there is no difference.
```kotlin
"Example string"
'Example string'
```
You are also able to escape certain characters by using the `\` character, this is to be able to use `"`, `'`, and other characters like tab `\t`, and newline `\n` inside of strings.
```kotlin
"\tIntended example with new line\n"
```

Now if you tried to just have a string literal in an Arucas file it would throw an error, this is because all code expressions must be followed by a `;`, this is how the language is able to know when one expression ends and another starts.
```kotlin
"This is valid syntax!";
```

### Number literals

Numbers are very easy to create, you can simply just type them! Numbers can be easily modified and are an essential value, we will explore more about how to manipulate numbers in the operators section.
```kotlin
0; 1; 2; 3; 4; 5;
```
Decimals are also supported:
```kotlin
1.5; 3.1415926; 
```
You are also able to write numbers in hexadecimal (base 16), don't worry if you don't know what this is, it's not necessary to use, just a handy feature.
```kotlin
0xFF; 0x1B9E00;
```

### Boolean literals

Booleans are very simple, there are just two possible literals for these.
```kotlin
true;
false;
```
These values are used to do boolean logic, which we will cover in the operators section.

### Null literal

Null is as simple as it gets, there is only one literal for it:
```
null;
```
The `null` value represents nothing, it is used when a value doesn't exist, be careful will how it is used though, null safety is important, you don't want to get `null` values where you want other values.

### List literals

Lists are a more complex data structure and these allow you to store many values of any type inside of it, including other lists. Lists in Arucas have a very simple syntax:
```kotlin
["Example", 1, true, null];
```
Lists are great for storing many pieces of data in one place. We will cover lists more in detail later in this guide.

### Map literals

Maps are also a complex data structure that allow you to map one value to another, allowing you to make keys to access values. The syntax is very straightforward:
```kotlin
// Here we are mapping numbers to their names
{1: "one", 2: "two", 3: "three"};
```
Maps are a fast way of storing data that needs to be accessed, again we will cover maps in greater detail later.
